Hello, Wynn and all, welcome once again to Meltdown Comics, the nerd Mel Teeter.
Harmontown is now in session. Please welcome to the stage the mayor of Harmontown, Dan Harmon.
Thank you! All right. Jeff. Yes, Dan? We got guests. We got a guest tree growing in the back. Our green room was chock full of nuts.
So let's get anything we got to say about me being fat, jerking off, and whatever.
You're getting a little rounder.
All right. I'm fat. I jerk off. I put some stuff in my butt once. I'm into women with the pantyhose.
Bubble baths?
I love taking bubble baths. Hate NBC. Hate Tony. Love, love, love. 12-year-olds in the back of my white van. Rape. Rape. Hilarious. Hilarious rape!
We can end the show right now.
Well, that concludes the 20% of you can run off, go and blog. But we got guests to talk about. I'm excited.
And talk too. I'm excited about both of them, really. One of whom we teased earlier because she wasn't here, and her Mr. Clean bouncer in the back kept going,
No! She's here. She's actually here. No idea what we'll talk to her about, but I'm excited that she's here because she's part of comedy history.
And then another fella who I'm also excited about because he's like the version of me that's actually read about the things that I pretend I'm interested in.
So I don't know where to start. Let's talk about you. Where'd you get that suit? Who cares?
I'm just about to tell you the rich history of the suit.
You got anything going on?
Me? You know what, Dan? I'm just living a happy life. I've traveled a lot recently, and I'm home. And I don't leave it again until we leave together for Scotland.
Oh, that's nice.
Okay. I have a lot of anxiety about... I'm working on community, and it's like you... I've burrowed into this mud hole.
Community is a television show?
And I have no idea, but at this point my compass needle is spinning, and with the quality of the show, it doesn't matter. Who will ever know?
That's whatever. That's my shtick. I have no idea. It could be best. It could be worst. Who cares?
No one ever wanted me to... Who cares, Dan? But how you feel about how good your show is is bad. It's stupid. It's a sitcom. Just shut up.
But I'm in that zone where I'm like, I don't know... That's been like six months, and I keep thinking I'm gonna finish, and then we're gonna go off to Scotland in between Aaron's birthday.
It's coming up very soon.
Is that... It's a couple weeks, what?
It's December 5th, is Aaron's birthday.
Same as my brother?
Same as my dad.
What?!
Really?
My brother...
It was a fan fiction story involving you and I at an 1800s orgy.
I'm almost certain that it already exists.
In which we became our own grandfathers.
Is there a slash porn of you out on the internet right now?
I've never seen anything on the internet about that involved me doing it.
There has to be.
Because there's lots of slash of me because of Who's Line.
The Who's Line fans love it.
You don't like it.
I mean, no.
Because here's why.
Poorly written.
Would you like me to write some slash porn?
Would you like me to knock it out of the park?
That's not where I was going with it, but yes, I would.
I would like you to write some really good me and Greg Proup slash.
Alright, well I'll work on that.
I'll give you a better challenge.
Me and you slash it up between you and I.
If that doesn't exist, I'm shocked.
I don't know what we have to do to make it happen.
There's somebody, artwork of me and Dustin Marshall, our podcast producer.
I just really gain it up.
I saw some really flattering...
Actually, probably years ago, when we first started doing Harmontown,
I saw some really flattering, serialized fan fiction
that wasn't slash, it was just fan fiction, it was about just our exploits.
It was just me hanging out and then you hanging out.
I don't know, I was having misadventures and things.
Somebody sent me a link one time and you read the first couple lines
and it was me and Colin Macri on a cruise ship,
and then it instantly turns into just sucking and fucking.
I would welcome any of it.
The reason I can't really read the community stuff,
because I think I've explained this enough,
but the reason is because of scientific craftsmanship,
because if you were to write a community fanfic story
about Annie finds a Rubik's Cube and there's a butt inside of it
and it farts in her face,
if I were to mention Rubik's Cubes in an episode or something,
we have to keep those worlds separate otherwise.
What am I supposed to do? What could I do?
Would you want to have sent me something
and be the reason why I couldn't do that episode?
Or would you want to be sitting there wondering if I ripped you off?
The only possible thing I can do is not deal with it.
Thank you, Dan, for...
I was hoping he would talk for 10 minutes straight about why he can't read fanfiction.
Now for our next segment, me cutting myself
and then drinking it and then complaining about the taste and spitting into a cup
and then tearing the cup and then cutting myself the charge of the cup.
Where'd you get this new cardigan?
Aaron got this for me and it's monogrammed,
but they got the monogram wrong.
What's it say?
D-H-G?
They got the monogram wrong?
But it's still a monogram sweater, man.
I think it might have been Gathie. She added Dan Harmon and Gathie.
Alright, let's start bringing up our friends.
I think...
I'm trying to figure out what order to bring them up in to maximize the impact.
Height.
Height's been suggested.
Water displacement.
I'm going to bring them up in order of how...
First, we're going to do our feral audio...
No, fuck that. No. I'm going counterintuitive.
Fuck you.
I'm going off the rails.
Follow your heart.
I'm following my heart.
Slash it up.
I'm bringing Lorraine Newman up first.
Lorraine Newman to the stage.
You can sit anywhere and take any mic.
Doesn't matter.
No, you don't have to move down.
It's the future. There's no more rules.
You just sit anywhere you want.
Alright.
No idea what to talk to you about. That's one of the new things.
Well, we could talk about public bathrooms.
We were talking about that in the green room.
I said, is there anything in your mind, emotionally, and you said...
You want to have a word with...
But it sounded like your husband is one of these people.
No, it's women.
But your husband, in the meantime, in the men's room, he said...
Oh, I think it was the next guest who talked about the gap.
Right.
Okay, let's include them.
I didn't hear what my husband said.
You know how deafness, male deafness, tunes out the...
Yes.
...pitch that's women's voices?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I'm kidding, honey.
I really didn't hear what he said.
You said in the green room, you wouldn't mind talking about this.
You called it the ski position.
Yeah, the women that think you can catch something from a toilet seat,
so they hover.
You can't catch something from a toilet seat, but I end up sitting in your piss.
Right.
And it makes me hate you.
Yeah, like, you don't want germs, so you're not going to sit on the toilet seat.
You're going to be the Nikola Tesla of peeing in a public bathroom.
Lorraine, you're saying women hover so high that they piss all over the seat?
They don't even have to hover high, but they still piss on the seat.
Really?
And no matter how much you put to cover the seat, it still comes through,
and I end up sitting in their pee.
So it makes me mad.
Does that force you to hover as well?
No, I refuse to hover.
You'd rather sit in strangers' pee than hover.
Well, there are times when it's deceiving, because you've laid something down.
Right.
You've done your work.
And often you can't see it because of the lighting.
Yeah.
But then it's like, you...
I'm with Lorraine.
I think that that's the last field of battle amongst each other.
If we cannot touch with our asses the same piece of plastic, what are we even doing?
It's the end of civilization.
Until some scientist says there's a germ that goes from your vagina and your butthole
onto a piece of plastic and waits in a mall and jumps up into you.
It can live.
But at that point, by the way, no one's going in a bathroom before that thing has taken us all out.
Right.
So until then, it's an altar when you go into a public bathroom.
You have a choice.
And the people that have come before you, they've made a choice.
And they have changed the surface of the altar.
And your husband, God bless his soul, but he is one of the enemy.
Because he said he leans forward when he makes a poo-poo.
Wait, what?
He leans forward.
To what end?
To his end.
And when I heard him describe it, I suddenly understood so many of the things that I have sometimes seen in a stall.
Wait, wait.
Leans forward to make a poo-poo.
So that you're not touching everything.
Well, I'm not touching this.
Trying to split the difference.
Like you're on a fucking bench leaning forward.
I am not touching this part of the conversation.
Let's move on to the people who are loading their cars at the market.
But they're not telling you that they're not leaving when you're waiting for their spot.
Yeah.
How about them?
Right.
Right?
What do you mean?
There needs to be some sort of public pact where if you're not leaving, signal that somewhere.
Exactly.
Be a human being.
Wait, loading their cars.
With their groceries or something.
And you're putting stuff in your car.
Let's say you're at the market.
And you're putting groceries in your car.
But also, you have to go to the dry cleaner next door or something like that.
Right.
And you're not getting in your car.
And you can see that someone's waiting for your spot.
And people don't say, hey.
I've lost Dan.
I can see it.
I've lost him completely.
Dan's not big on social cues.
No, but I know.
If I'm in my, if I'm in my, if I'm in, get into my car and I, I'm, no, I'm the meters running.
If I feel like someone's might be thinking that I'm going to leave the spot and stuff.
No, I'm very paranoid about that.
My biggest nightmare, hands down, second only to bucket of spiders on the face is the public
movie theater, save me, save me a seat.
I'll be right there.
Save me a seat.
Yes.
Sold out movie.
I got to sit next to an empty seat or two or three.
Sometimes there's three of you coming.
Save us a seat.
I can't say no because there's no, what kind of dick move is that?
I'm so with you.
I got to spend the 20 minutes of trivia slides about David Hasselhoff, like before the movie
where people are like, people that, by the way, now history shows will sometimes pull out
rifle and shoot you are looking for seats in the movie.
That's not why.
That's not, I have never assumed that that would be the case, but what terrifies me, people
like going a seat taken, I'm cheating.
I'm, everyone wants to sit.
You know what you do in that case.
If you have to, if you're forced into that situation, because again, yeah, you can't say,
no, I won't save you a seat, but what you do, a friend of mine, a comedian, Ted Davis,
he said, on a plane or in a movie theater, when you have to save a seat, just affect
a really wet cough.
That's good.
And just cough, just cough a lot, then nobody wants those seats.
Yeah, yeah, or a variety of props could help out in that situation, but in reality.
Which props would help out the most?
Well, like you take these googly glasses and these are what I call my mild highs.
I don't know.
It's an audio podcast.
Just imagine I'm wearing a prop that physically makes sense.
A person next to you wouldn't want to, you ever want to scare a librarian?
Lorraine Newman, you're 1975, you're on a variety comedy show that is not supposed to,
I assume, succeed, or they wouldn't have put it on at midnight on NBC.
Right, it was supposed to replace the, instead of the Carson reruns.
Right.
And it's live.
It's a film, yeah.
Meaning, not meaning amazing, like we, what is it now, 40 years later?
I can't even keep track of time, but 42 years later, like every fucking sketch is archived
in this computer control.
There's a robot arm that goes dick in a box, goes burp, October 2012.
Why would that be in October?
There's a Christmas sketch, but back in these days of cone heads and these things,
like you guys were doing this variety show for us.
Yeah, your bell-bottom jeans and like it was, I don't have a question because I'm a bad
interviewer.
I'm curious if you have any insight.
Well, you want me to set the stage?
Sure.
Okay.
Well, the first people who were hired in the cast were actually me and Gilda.
And I had worked with Lauren before.
I had done a Lily Tomlin special and I think that was in 74 and he had seen me in the groundlings.
And then he came back and saw me doing more characters and more material.
Who's he?
Lauren.
Okay.
So I went to New York and I met Gilda and then we watched other people's auditions.
Wow.
Yeah.
And then I met Danny.
With him because he was like, you're my Charlie's Angels.
Let's go.
Exactly.
That's what we felt like.
And that was interesting.
And then we started filming the commercial parodies and that's where I met Blue Shee
and Howard Shore, who was our band leader, who has now become an Academy Award-winning.
Lord of the Rings.
Yeah.
I mean, you know, actually Silence of the Lambs, too.
Ah, fuck that.
Wait, Lorraine, so who's auditions did you watch that made it into the cast?
Jane Curtin.
Wow.
And it was between her and Mimi Kennedy.
Do you know who she is?
Oh God, I wish I could list her credits now.
You'd go, oh my God, yeah, her.
She was really good, but Jane, it was just clear.
So Lauren had the women first?
I think so, yeah.
And I think he did have Danny, actually.
And Chevy was hired as a writer, Garrett Morris was hired as a writer.
And I met Tom Schiller, who was also a writer.
And I'm thinking, God, that guy looks familiar.
It turned out that we'd gone to the same grammar school and my sister had been his camp counselor.
So, you know, that was interesting.
It's already surprising to me, because from what I've read, like, you guys were all,
I picture you guys as being all sort of in the same company.
Like, there was like a second city or something and there's somebody coming and scouting and just grabbing people.
Well, the groundlings adjust.
We had just formed the groundlings like a year before I went to New York to do the show.
I was the first groundling to go and do SNL.
So I cannot tell you the teasing I got from everybody in the cast.
Well, mainly Danny and John about the groundlings.
So, no, it was second city from Toronto, second city from Chicago.
So it was all just, you guys, when you were showing up in 75, when you were shooting the first,
do you remember the first sketch?
Yeah, well, I also remember the first sketch that was cut on George Carlin's show,
which was Alexander the Great's High School Reunion.
And it was so funny.
And I wasn't even in it, but I was heartbroken that it was cut.
And, you know, there have been a lot of instances like that,
including, I think it was Jesus Christ's High School Reunion where it was like, Jesus, is that you?
God, you look good. Christ is good to see you.
No.
What was the joke at Alexander the Great's High School Reunion?
Oh, that I don't remember.
That's such a long time ago.
Just trust me.
Trust me, it was funny.
So you left the groundlings in what year?
75.
When I was born in 73, when I was four or five years old,
my first professional job was at the groundlings theater.
I did a play there.
Really?
Yeah.
So it would have been just a couple of years after you left.
Wow.
I was in a very ill-advised production of You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown, with all children.
Real children.
It was a bummer.
Wow.
Opening night, I was Linus, and my director, who was six foot five,
and I was a little tiny four-year-old, and he goes, he gets down on his knees,
and his hunch is like, in the wings, right before I walk on, he's like,
Jeffrey, are you okay?
I'm like, yeah, why?
He's like, you don't look so good.
And I just puked all over.
I just projectile vomited all over his face,
and then I dropped my blanket and went out on stage.
As I think I said before, if you're Linus and you don't have a blanket,
you're Schroeder.
Nobody fucking knows who you are.
That's some pep talk.
That's a great pep talk.
Yeah, that's good.
Oh, that guy had a drink.
And you were on SNL.
Now we call it SNL.
It never called the SNL back then.
Well, at that time, it was NBC's Saturday Night,
because Howard Cosell had a show on Friday night with his rep company, Chris Guest.
A lot of other interesting people.
What was the Howard Cosell show called?
It was Saturday Night.
Oh, okay.
All right.
So anyways, you did it for like five years?
Five years, yeah.
How many episodes would that be?
I think it was 105 shows.
Jesus Christ.
And then Lorne decided he'd had enough.
So you departed, there was that year that Lorne Michaels got removed from his own NBC show.
Is that what happened?
Yeah.
Something like that.
I remember reading something like that.
Dan, where are you going with this?
I don't know.
No, no, I really wasn't going with that.
Was that 80?
Yes, 1980.
And so you left like...
The whole cast left.
Like Lorne came, did you call you guys together and go...
I don't know, I'm interviewing you about stuff that everyone can read and some paperbacks.
Dick Ebersol, someone from the network came and asked us if we wanted to stay knowing
that Lorne was leaving.
Because Jean Damanian, who had been, I think the talent coordinator, was going to take
over as the producer.
And she...
We didn't feel that she could do it.
So we all left.
Wow.
And I was homesick.
I came home to L.A.
After five years of working in a show, even if you thought that the next person would
do a bang up job, it's like, it's a good time to leave.
Yeah.
You can't be faulted for it.
Lorne, what was your relationship with Chevy?
Because Dan has worked with Chevy and they've had kind of a famous newsworthy relationship.
It was the last thing that we said in the green room.
It was like, oh, the Chevy connection.
Oh, Jesus.
We're not going to talk about that.
Yeah, I was friends with Chevy.
We had a really great friendship.
And when he left the show, I continued to be friends with Chevy.
You were notably the only person from Saturday Night Live, unless I'm mistaken, when he
did that roast in Comedy Central.
You were the one alumni, alumnum, alumnud, new dude.
Alumn.
You did a very funny bit that was like, you were read from your diary of having worked
with Chevy.
Yes.
But you were the only person there.
And the story surrounding that thing is that he was pretty bummed out.
He actually described.
Oh, it was awful.
It was really, I mean, you know, his speech, you know, when he comes up afterwards was
just, they cut most of it and they had to because it was basically, there was no material.
Usually they have a, you know, a bit where they roast the people that roasted them.
But his was off the cuff and it was just basically saying, fuck you to everybody else, you know.
And people who had artfully crafted a piece, you know.
And it just, and he said, I'm only doing this because it's benefiting my wife's favorite
charity.
Right.
So, yeah.
But seriously, you and I, it's like, I literally ran up into the stage because we had that
one moment right before, I was like, oh, Chevy, oh, shit.
I think you and I get the sense, you and I feel the same way, which is like, no good
can come of.
We're not going to, there's no shit talk like to be done.
There's no, like, he's, he's a fucking fascinating person.
And I worked with him longer than you did not to pull any rank or anything.
But I've actually worked with him longer than anybody, which is I sometimes marvel at looking
back on and, and like, I, like, he, so magnificent, such an unignorable person.
Tell you a story about the time that I broke my ribs.
Does anybody, have anybody here broken their ribs?
Anybody?
Only once.
I'm laughing at Chevy Chase.
It hurts like hell and takes forever to heal.
It is excruciating.
And you can't sneeze and you can't cough and you can't sit up and you can't lay down.
You can't do anything.
So forget laughing.
All right.
Now, it's a shame that they didn't include Chevy in the aristocrats' documentary.
Because he tells it probably the funniest of anybody else because he acts it out.
The aristocrats joke.
He actually shits in your mouth.
Well, there's, there's two of them.
One is, I think there's a version that, that involves sceptology.
And then there's a version that involves incest.
He does the incest one.
When you say he acts it out, he brings members of his family out.
You know, he makes you the victim, he victimizes.
No, he pantomimes that.
It's pantomime.
Is this related to the broken ribs?
Yeah.
This is years, years from like my having seen him.
He finds out that I've broken my ribs.
He tracks me down to where I'm staying, which is my boyfriend's house at the time.
I'm still living in New York.
And I, and the opening line of the joke is guy goes to a booking agent.
He tracks me down.
I've broken my ribs.
I, you know, fuck it.
I just, you know, breathing hurts.
I pick up the phone.
No, hi.
Hello.
Guy goes to a booking agent.
That's my friend Chevy, you know, now that's love.
That's love.
He, like, he, yeah, like he still calls me and, and vice versa, and it's all like, like
he's, he is focused on making people laugh.
He's funny.
Yeah.
And like, like he, I, I, I was at a hot dog stand out that sounds like I'm making it up.
There were, for some reason there was a hot dog stand outside the stage where we're shooting
community.
Everyone's weary, everyone's bummed out.
No one wants to be there.
No one wants to get home later.
And, and the guy manning the hot dog stand goes, uh, holy shit, it's Chevy Chase, uh,
who's standing in front of me waiting to get a hot dog.
And I go, I'm thinking in my head, oh, great, so fuck, yeah, uh, like, please come on, don't
talk to anybody.
We're all, we all just want to go home.
And he's like, what do you want?
And he goes like, well, fuck my sister's not going to believe this, oh, please, can I,
let me call my sister.
I was like, well, you talk to her on the phone and I'm just, I'm thinking in my head, like,
I don't even have the balls to be a man and say like, sir, excuse me, it's Chevy Chase
wants his hot dog and we need to work.
Thank God I didn't have those balls because this guy in front of me has worked for, you
know, a thousand years more than me who has the right to decline or, or, or absorb this
thing goes like, like, yeah, yeah, give me the phone, give me the phone.
And he takes the phone and it's like, it's right, and it goes like, hello, who's this?
Natalie.
Natalie is Chevy Chase.
What the fuck do you want?
And it, and the hot dog guy is like, freaking out and Chevy Chase walks off down Paramount
with the phone and he's gesturing and he's, it's like 15 minutes, I'm like, I'll have
a hot dog with lettuce and I have all that time to think about who I am.
I have all that time to think about who I am.
I don't, I don't know anything about being a celebrity and I don't know anything about
eating hot dogs.
I'm an autopilot mode.
I have all that time to think about like, who am I and who do, who do I think I am and
how do, how are you supposed to treat people and what is, what is, what is any of this?
Because Chevy Chase is walking off with this cell phone and he brings it back and he hands
it to the happiest hot dog guy in the fucking world.
And when he hands it back, he said, what do we call, we're called the aristocrats when
he gives the phone.
But that's, and yeah, and he would do, like, like if he was walking away from the sound
stage, if he ever came across one of those Paramount tour groups or something, you would,
you'd, you'd pop by and he would be holding court, like, like they, they're popping pictures
and he's talking because they ran across Fletch on Paramount lot.
Anyways, like he, what do you, what do you, what do you say?
You don't say anything.
I have no idea.
You say, you say the word Chevy.
Yeah.
Chevy, I understand.
Well, you know, I have no idea what you guys went through.
Uh, TV, TV comedy, like single camera comedy after the advent of basic cable, after the
advent of, I mean, I, we got, uh, and anybody over the age of 55 on that set, like they
are, they are already being tortured.
I think the Geneva convention, if they knew what was going on for an actor over, like,
like at a certain point it'd be like, you're not allowed to do this to human beings.
Our crew, you know, like, like we abide by the union rules that we have to abide by.
But the truth is there's humanity going on on those stages and stuff.
So, uh, he was, he was not.
So you think exhaustion contributed to a lot of it?
I mean, if you're, if you're, if you're that magnetic of personality, how long are you
supposed to stand there and be magnetic and be told that you have to do 20 more takes?
You know, he was like, not used to that at all, like, like, because it's like, fuck
you, I'm Chevy Chase.
What do you mean one more take?
Fuck you.
You got it.
We, we didn't have it.
But, but he felt like we had it and, uh, yeah, because I could, yeah, it's, it's, it's,
it's a tough.
Well, but my guess is it wasn't, fuck you, I'm Chevy Chase, you have it.
It was that you're repeatedly asking for it.
I, and maybe it made him insecure.
Oh, absolutely.
God.
And it's like the, the, the, the horrible, odd mirror that I would look into whenever
he and I would like try to talk to each other about what, what, how we were dissatisfied
was like, how do you, how do you say to somebody like, Oh no, I know how you feel when you
don't have a right to say that.
I'm like you, the, the, you, that is an insult to say that like I'm 20 years younger than
you.
You're not, I'm not like you.
I don't have a right to be like you yet, but like I, you're, oh no, the, the blood that's
boiling in your veins.
Like I, it's boiling in mine too, but like, like, it'll be funny if you, if you act like
it's boiling.
Was Chevy, was Chevy like that back in the old days, back in the SNL days?
Was he like driven by insecurity then?
Well, I think that's a, you know, that's your wiring.
Yeah.
Everybody probably was to some degree.
Right?
Yeah.
Anybody on that stage, right?
What was it?
What was Bill Murray like?
Cause you, you, cause you saw that then he came in and from what I've read, the weird
situation that Bill Murray was in was that people mistakenly perceived that he was the
replacement for Chevy Chase and he had to go through that whole thing.
Well, um, what was he like in the context of thinking he was trying to fill Chevy's
shoes.
I don't think that he, I mean, I, I, I don't, I mean, I, I don't, I don't, I mean, I, I
can't, I can't speak for Billy.
He's a very enigmatic person, but you know, he, uh, he's a great guy.
I wish I had my phone with me.
I could read some of his texts because they're hilarious.
We have a great texting relationship.
Uh, one of the, uh, one of our, you know, associates, a girl named Robin Schlein who
died a couple of years ago from cancer, he said, well, I'll come over and fuck you.
I think that would be, you know, a nice thing, uh, you know, so he's, he's just such a great
guy.
You know, what was the, uh, what was the vibe like before you guys would walk out to start
a show?
You'd, you'd rehearsed it.
You'd probably done the, the, the, the, they still did the, um, the, uh, the dress rehearsal
for the, for the, for the, for the, for the, for the, so you did that.
So before you guys were ready to go live and do it, what was the camaraderie or was it
like, was it, were you guys a team?
Was it, was it, was there like a, did you guys get together and have a huddle beforehand
or what was the vibe like?
No, you couldn't because you were on all different areas of the stage, um, which is
strange because we went and saw the show, I guess two years ago, I'd never seen it before.
I'd never been in the audience before.
And it was, uh, I think Ed Helms was the host and they've really blocked off a lot of sections
of the, of the floor, you know, which we used to use the whole floor as sets.
Meaning what?
Cause I can't even picture to begin with what the floor would look like.
What do you mean by sectioned off?
Um, they've closed it off, you know, um, there's, there's sets where you can't, you
can't see everything from a certain part of the audience.
Right.
Well, they've used them.
I think they're using parts of where like the bleachers are for the upstairs.
We use, you know, some of that area was opened up and we used it, the floor area as sets
and now they're, they're just enclosed.
I think they use them for, uh, uh, costume changes and wig changes and things like that.
So they use very little of the floor now.
And I think, you know, also they have just new technology that helps them along.
Did you get that feeling?
Like, cause I've gone back to theaters that I performed out when I was a kid and you walk
in there and you have that kind of weird, oh, should I'm on kind of like, like, uh,
for me anyway, I get like a weird energy of like, like, you, you're, you remember some
of that, the, the, the old frights, was it, was it like going back and seeing a show there
and not being like having to go out and do it?
Oh, you mean did I have like, uh, auxiliary stage fright?
Well, I know what was like, what was it like to return there after a year's and see it,
see it different?
Like, what was the emotional?
Well, it, um, they cleaned it up nice.
The upstairs was always so ratty, you know, speaking of what it was like in the beginning
because, you know, we had all their shit furniture, right?
You know, like from the, you know, whatever floor that was oral histories, let's give
them that couch from the Bob's.
You guys were punk rock.
We were doing a variety show.
The whole point was it was a variety show by people that were not supposed to be in
charge of.
Yeah.
That was what was so exciting about it when we really felt like we were able to put on
stuff that made us laugh and we just couldn't believe the kind of stuff that we were able
to put on.
The interesting thing is the constant question of when, when is comedy, cause when you're
laughing at things, there's nothing more subversive than that.
And then at the same time, like everybody loves to laugh and that's why it's subversive.
So then like comedy becomes institutionalized.
And I don't know what the fuck my point is and where I'm going with this rant, but it's,
it's like, like this was a punk rock variety show with a bunch of pot smoking, uh, happy
go lucky people just fucking around and it was live and it wasn't supposed to.
The idea that you had cones on your head was ironic.
It wasn't like, Hey, let's get the cone.
I don't know how to articulate it, but I think that the reason it's still as successful
is because it's allowed to be idiosyncratic, you know, character driven stuff always works
if it's a really original character.
And I think that they pick good talent and they have good writers.
It's not always at the same time, but they, but they've always had great people, always.
And they've had tough seasons and they've had great seasons.
Do you watch it?
Have you watched it consistently all the way through?
No, when I had, when my kids were small, I didn't, and there was no such thing as Tivo.
But now that there is, I watch it all the time.
I love it.
Yeah.
Because I still love sketch.
I mean, if today, if today's SNL was held to the, or if, if, if I'm sorry, if 1975 SNL
was held to the standard that we do now, where we go, okay, what were the two funny sketches?
Let's put them on a split cider and put a little clicky link in the thing.
Like it was, it was a variety show and you come into the description of that process
is amazing.
Who is the coolest musical guest that you got from me?
I mean, for me, like, I don't get struck around actors or like famous people, musicians
always.
Me too.
Comedians.
We all love rockers and musicians.
I'm the same way.
Who is the, who is the groovyest that you got from me?
My favorite Bowie.
Oh, shit.
Is he like, I'm straight, but I would make out with Bowie.
I would absolutely make.
I think right now I'd make out with him.
George Harrison too.
Oh, yeah.
I mean, who wasn't done there?
It's almost more notable, like who in, in those five years, who wouldn't have been
on there?
What, what, what?
So what was Bowie singing about?
Do you remember the songs he sang?
What, what, what records was he doing with?
I don't.
I just remember that Klaus Nomey and Joey Arias, who had been a groundling, and Tony
Sales, who was my best friend in middle school, were in his band.
Just because he picked up local guys?
You're just the forest gump of David Bowie's, did you, at that point, did you go, wait,
is that what I am?
Am I a cog in David Bowie's?
That's right.
I'm just, I'm zelig.
Yeah, I just know, but I just wish they would have a Skrillex on, that's all I'm talking
about.
You were just, hashtag Skrillex on SNL.
You were definitely there during some of the, for me, the coolest era of music, like the
talent back then.
Yeah, Devo was on, and Elvis Costello.
I mean, for sure back then, that was the, that, and it, you can't, you can't talk shit
about SNL now.
And it's like, that's the thing, you can't talk shit about it.
That's not cool.
Well, it's a fucking institution, and now half my friends are on it, and it, or have
been on it, and it's like, it's an institution.
How, like the, the, the, it, you, your mind is torn in half by your relationship with
SNL.
A lot of the, the Lonely Island guys who, who started his channel 101 guys, and, and
went to SNL, and they, I think, I think it was one of them that kind of summed it up.
I'm sure this has been pointed out by anyone else, but they, they had said, you know, everyone,
everyone has grown up on SNL.
Everyone thinks that the SNL from when they were 10 years old was the perfect SNL, and
everyone thinks that the SNL from when they're 20 is a piece of shit.
Like, everyone has that luxury now, like, it's, it's been there the entire time, and
you go like, and I went, yeah, oh yeah, Martin Short, Christopher Guest, holy shit, those
were the days.
They were great.
They were.
And, but, but it's like, they weren't any better than anything, I, I, I, I mean, it's,
it's crazy to appraise, uh, seasons of, of, of SNL.
But it's also crazy to just say one season was better than the other, because they were
all different.
Yeah.
And they're, season four of Community, however, was a lot like watching it, season 20 of SNL
be forced to watch season one of Chevy Chase's talk show on a beach, uh, I don't want to
put you on the spot, but I would, if I had my preference, you would stay up here for
our next guest to come up, just because I think it would be interesting to have you
up here, but you can totally leave to and pretend that you have a medical emergency
or a family in pain.
But there's no dialogue between me and your guest.
No, there is.
You stay there.
You stay exactly where you are.
That's why I think it might be.
Why don't I move over here and I'll, because I'm, I'm really interested in what he has
to say, which I could hear out there too.
I think I say stay, stay exactly where you are and, and just, okay, good.
I just wanted to make sure you didn't want to like leave.
No, I don't want to leave.
Okay.
I'm kind of, I mean, we are going somewhere after this, but I don't want to leave now.
All right.
Are we supposed to leave Chad?
No.
All right.
Remember that guy?
It's, it's the Lorraine Newman no guy.
Would you save a seat for me?
Sometimes yeah.
Sometimes he likes stuff.
The Lorraine Newman no guy.
All right.
Well, let's, uh, the Ferrell audio boy, we got a lot of podcasts on that network.
This guy's got one of them.
His name is Dr. PhD, Dr. Chris Ryan.
And he has a, uh, uh, he has a podcast called Tantinjali speaking.
Oh God.
Oh yeah.
Yeah, please sit.
There was that hangover.
Yeah.
The Lorraine stayed.
That's, it's great.
I can now, I can say I've been on a stage with Lorraine Newman.
Yeah.
It feels important.
I didn't want to, I didn't want to blow her off, but also because you are, uh, uh, the
interesting thing about your, your, uh, the book that you wrote, uh, it involves, uh,
monogamy versus polygamy and our species as primates.
You are a guy who's PhD is in psychology, but you became kind of, you stumbled into anthropology,
wrote a book where you didn't have any horse in the race, but you kind of ended up making
the case.
And this is a very sensitive issue for people.
Myself included, everybody gets their buttons pushed by this idea of is humankind naturally
monogamous?
Yeah.
It's, it's a funny thing, like people want to believe that we are when all the evidence
suggests we're not.
So that makes it a conflictive kind of conversation.
But also an anthropology that don't you count the fact that we all want to believe we are
as evidence to the fact that we are?
No.
Behaviorally, that's the difference between science and bullshit right there, you summed
it up.
Uh, no, I mean, if you look at, I was just doing a thing the other night with a Moshe
Cusher and some comedians talking about science.
And uh, yeah, I mean, the simplest way to explain human behavior is to say we're not
a polygamous species, right?
Polygamy would be one male and several females that were a promiscuous species where both
the males and the females had multiple sexual partners.
Uh, so the simplest way to explain contemporary human behavior is to simply to say we're a
promiscuous species that's being told to be monogamous.
Right.
And we can roll with that because of how promiscuous we are.
Well, it's like a Swiss army knife being told you have to open wine bottles.
Right.
But, but the blade comes out occasionally, right?
Yeah, we're still Swiss.
Uh, yeah.
And it's, and it's based a lot of humans are related to chimps closely of most closely
of all, and of those chimps, uh, it's the, but how do you pronounce it?
Bonobo?
Bonobo.
Uh, they are like, okay, here's where I, okay, here's where I lay my cards on the table.
This is why I refer to you as the Dan Harmon of informed people because I read one book
about this and pretend to be an expert on all this.
And uh, you wrote a book on it and probably read a million books on it and don't pretend
to be an expert on it.
But I read Desmond Morris's book from the sixties, the naked ape.
And uh, he, I think he was the one that talked about the, the bonobo chimps and he talked
about specifically how back in the day when science was still actually accountable to
some degree, uh, uh, to, uh, you know, social propriety, when you're just studying chimps
fucking, they had found this breed of chimps.
Is that accurate to call bonobos a breed of chimps?
Well, they used to be called pygmy chimps, uh, despite the fact that they're not really
smaller than common chimps.
There are separate species there.
In fact, Jared Diamond, who wrote guns, germs and steel and a bunch of other things argues
quite convincingly that chimps, humans and bonobos are really three subspecies of chimpanzee.
Right.
Okay.
We're so closely related.
We're, if you go to the zoo and you, you see the, the chimps or the bonobos in the zoo,
you are more closely related to them than they are to anything else in the zoo, gorillas
or orangutans.
Definitely.
Okay.
So the chimps, humans and bonobos are more closely related, for example, than the Indian
elephant is to the African elephant.
Oh, well, okay.
In terms of, in terms of genetic, like, uh, last common ancestor and shared DNA.
Wow.
Yeah.
We're extremely closely related.
What, what percentage is our DNA, uh, uh, like linked to a chimpanzee?
Well, there are many different ways to, that scientists use to measure that.
Some numbers vary, but from 98 to 95 and a half percent is the general range.
But also, but I mean, that's kind of a, a nonsense thing because we have 70% and come
to watermelon.
Half a percent.
Yeah.
Exactly.
A watermelon is 98% water, like, like, like a genetic, or we, yeah, exactly.
All I know is we, we don't have to go to work tomorrow.
That's what I'm getting from all of us.
Also, interestingly, speaking of not going to work, uh, both chimps and bonobos sleep
in hammocks, which I find really fascinating.
I love hammocks.
In nature?
Or just when they're provided them?
No, they weave hammocks every night.
They weave branches together and sleep in them.
They, they create hammocks.
So we argue, Kisselta, my wife and I, who's back there somewhere, argue in sex at dawn
that, uh, hammocks are the first human technology.
I fucking love hammocks.
I thought that that was a, but when you get into a hammock, it feels so good.
I thought it was, because I had Asperger's or something, it's because I'm a monkey.
So the bonobos, so Desmond Morris's book, and a lot of what Desmond Morris discussed,
you know, has been, has been subsequently questioned and challenged and stuff.
But, uh, what he talks about is they discovered this, this, this type of chip is really more
closely related to us.
Or as you're saying, like, they're like cousins of, well, they're equidistant, right?
Like we both descended from chimps.
And the interesting thing about them was always how much fucking and suckin' they did.
Like they were, they, they are incestuous, they are bisexual.
They are, uh, they, they, he, he referred to them settling gang disputes through orgies.
Uh, they're, they're known as the aristocrats of the jungle.
They, they, they do it all.
Guy goes into a talent office.
They make the Kamasutra look like an episode of My Three Sons.
Like they-
Guy goes into a hammock.
And, and, and in the fifties when they're discovering this stuff, they're sort of discovering
it and going, eh, weird, weird monkey.
Uh, and then over time we're going, wait, that's us.
That's what's going on.
That's what's raging inside our brain.
Yeah.
They're also the only other mammal that has sex face to face.
Right.
They, they stare into each other's eyes.
They kiss.
They have oral sex.
They exchange food while they're having sex.
Gross.
They can ask gross.
Hey, I don't like food and sex.
Whenever there's chocolate syrup or something, I don't like it.
Whipped cream.
Yeah.
Like it leaves a food out of it.
Franz Deval, who's a very famous Dutch primatologist said that chimpanzees use violence to get
sex and bonobos use sex to avoid violence.
Yeah.
So about 50 years of observation, both in the jungle and in captivity, no bonobo has
ever been witnessed to kill or rape another bonobo.
Not once.
And, and believe me, if you're the first one to see it, your career is made.
Right.
That's the holy grail of primatology.
You just created a whole new weird, uh, uh, paola scandal.
That's going to happen.
No bonobo rape porn.
It's going to 30 years from now, but no bonobo rapes staged by Dr. Sousa, uh, paid for
in Bitcoin.
Um, so, so, so we do with that information though.
Here's, here's, okay.
So let me walk through the emotional experience that a human being with a neck tie that's
got to go to work tomorrow at 9am, um, uh, that, that, that loves his wife and, and loves
his kids, what, what the emotional thought experience that he has when he reads a scientist
saying that human beings aren't naturally monogamous, um, the, the, the natural experience
is that that person says, well, that is implying that my life is a lie.
That's implying that.
Yeah.
But that's a mistake.
That's a very shallow interpretation.
That's like, that's like, if you're talking to a vegetarian and you say our ancestors
were omnivores, is the vegetarian going to stay there for my life is a lie?
I don't think so.
I think most vegetarians would say, yeah, of course they were.
That's why being a vegetarian is hard, but I still choose to do it.
We're also, we're also clearly descended from a lot of murderers.
Like we, we, we, we, we, we bashed each other's brains in and slurped our brains from each
other's bones.
We don't have to keep doing that.
Uh, I agree with the sentiment of what you're saying, but, you know, people often say to
me, cause I'm like in the business of talking about human nature, right?
Which everybody's got an opinion on.
People say like, okay, what is human nature?
Are we naturally violent?
As you're suggesting, like Steven Pinker suggests and others, or are we natural?
Fuck Steven Pinker.
I know.
I've said that many times, uh, but, uh, what the hell was they saying?
Steven Pinker always sidetracks me, um, but the thing is we are, uh, there's all sorts
of interesting research showing that toddlers of six months old already have a sense of
justice and that, and, and one thing I often say is, look, nobody's walking around suffering
from PTSD because they helped a stranger, right?
So no matter how violent you think we are by nature, it's interesting that we have to
be trained to hurt each other.
Yeah.
After boot camp, it still fucks us up, right?
You know?
So I think that the evidence is quite clear that we are by nature, uh, uh, species very
interested in justice and egalitarianism and compassion and compassion.
That's our nature.
We can, we can under extreme circumstances be extremely cruel and nasty and bizarre,
but that's not our nature as a species.
And what do we, what do we share?
So if we, what do we share that with?
Who's the common ancestor that wants to rip throats out?
If we are actually, well, it's the chimpanzee, according to, if we're, if we're equidistant
with bonobos from the chimp, then bonobos are like fucking and sucking and swinging.
They're the seventies of, uh, of chimpanzees.
And we're over here being like, you know, we're, we're divo going like, okay, we can,
we can do this.
Let's just build a couple more skyscrapers and beep, boop, boop, boop.
But we all have that grandfather, that great Santini above us going like, get in there,
get your ass in the dirt, private, rip that throat out, tell that woman what's her job.
Dan, when is your book Mixed Metaphors coming out?
It's an album, Jeff.
And it's going to be the book of movies.
So, uh, what do you think is the final word on us?
Like, are we, are we, what's the final word on us?
No, no, no.
So, I, I, I believe such a, like, like children in a sandpit aren't racist.
Uh, we, we learn that we're, and, and also I, I don't think we're naturally, I think
we're naturally, there's a bit of competition and competitiveness in us, but I don't think
that, like you said, we have an innate sense of justice.
I think there's other things that come along later on, like capitalism and governments
that we, we reward, uh, war and we reward, uh, conflict and property.
Yeah.
Well, see, that's the essential difference.
I mean, that's really what our book is about is to understand that, that our species has
existed for at least 200,000 years as an anatomically modern species, right?
Uh, agriculture only came about 10,000 years ago.
So that's 5% of our time on earth as a species, or much less if you include pre-media.
Modern species of human, right?
So it's a very small percentage in any case.
And before agriculture, the way societies were designed was completely different from
the way it is after agriculture.
Think about property.
All hunter-gatherer people are what anthropologists call fiercely egalitarian.
They share everything.
And if you don't share, fuck you, get the hell out of here.
Which is why anthropologists have a big problem when they show up with a, a big box full of
chocolate bars and peanut butter to last a whole year while they're doing the research
and they won't share it with anybody.
The people are like, what the fuck are, what kind of person are you?
You come here, you eat our food, you ask me about my grandfather, you want to study everything
and you won't share your peanut butter with us, right?
It's a completely different mindset.
So what?
But then when they give them the peanut butter, then they're like, okay, so how is the world
created from peanut butter?
I love it.
It's true.
Cargo cults.
That's another big problem.
There are people who believe that the gods give canned goods, you know that?
But that's another start.
So, so how did it change when agriculture came on?
Well, agriculture introduced the concept of private property and now you live, people
lived in settlements.
They lived, they could accumulate property.
So for the first time, men really had a reason to care about their paternity because like,
I don't want to leave, you know, this building that I, they weren't, yeah, exactly.
They weren't nomadic.
So interesting.
So they, so that's when they took control of women, right?
And that's when women became property.
If you read the Old Testament, thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife.
We all think that's like, respect his marriage, right?
No.
Read it in context.
It continues.
Nor his house, nor his slave, nor his she-ass, really, she-ass, nor his ox.
Don't covet thy neighbor's property.
And the wife is just part of the property.
Right.
So it's a huge change.
But so when people are hunting, when people are out there with spears, like, okay, they're
like a football team running around.
Let's go kill some mammoth and we'll bring the mammoth meat back to wherever we're camped
for the night.
You're saying that's fiercely egalitarian because the, the, it's, maybe the women are
staying behind.
I don't know if that's politically incorrect to imply, but I can't go back in time and
see it.
You're saying that like the, the agricultural society is where there's like, yeah, we live
in one place.
We have a city.
We're going to irrigate these crops.
And you can store grain where there's, there's, there's leisure time because you can actually,
you can start to store crops and you can have a, a, a granary that where you can live.
But that's also where math comes from.
It's where astronomy comes from.
It's where, right.
Or leisure, leisure time.
Civilization.
But why, why, um, I'm sorry, what's your first name again?
Chris.
Chris, why, uh, why do women become property then?
Because when men have property, then they're very concerned with their paternity so that
they're leaving their property to their son.
But why is it men that have the property when agriculture comes along?
Because the main, uh, advantage in, uh, agricultural societies is upper body strength because of
the plow that you had to be able to control a plow.
Also warfare became very important because agricultural societies tend to expand.
Protect, you're protecting borders, right?
So women in hunter gatherer societies have equal or sometimes higher status than men.
But women rule in a completely different way through consensus.
Men in, in matriarchal societies get laid a lot.
It's much better.
For example, bonobos are female dominated.
Even though the female bonobos a little smaller than the male, as with chimps and humans,
if a male attacks a female, all the females will gang up on that male and attack him.
So when you, when you're running a plow and to be, to be agricultural, you need that upper
body strength.
Men are doing, they're running their farms, they become the rulers, then there's more
time to build structures, uh, and specialization.
Yeah.
Permanent structures that last, uh, for a long time.
So then that's when you say patriarchy comes along with like, let's, let's make sure the
hereditary, like the bloodline stays, then you have rulers and, and that's when men become
assholes.
Yeah.
That's when the inner asshole comes out.
I have to update my, my, my Joseph Campbell informed like understanding of how this all
worked was that it was these male dominated football squads of the, I pictured like these
cave men and these fur loincloth, like, like going like, you, you take the left, you take
the right Johnson, go 20, go deep, and they, and they like spear these animals and they
take the meat back home to these little encamps and campments and then they, those encampments
travel and then those assholes go down to the equator where these like incredibly advanced
societies have been formed, sometimes incredibly brutal, but advanced societies have been formed
because of, because they're able to, because they live in a more equatorial climate.
They have created a society around the stars and, and the rising tide and all that stuff.
And then those ass, these, these, these patriarchal guys come in and go, fuck you.
You don't, you, you may be organized, but you don't know home invasion like we do.
And they just take over and they're idiots, but they own the alphabet and they're just
like, okay, A, B, C, D, I guess, like, like that's, that, that was my understanding of
it.
But that was your, some Campbell said that was the picture I got from him.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, you're right that the men generally, and it's not politically incorrect.
It's accurate.
According to the data I've read that the men generally went hunting and the women generally
gathered.
Now, what's interesting is that about 60 to 70% of the calories that people lived on
came from the gathering, not from the hunting, right?
So I mean, and there are all sorts of things we, we recount in our book, like in the Amazon,
there's a tribe, the Kulina that have a ritual where when the men, okay, so men don't like
to hunt generally, right?
They'll go occasionally, but men are lazy.
They're in their hammocks, right?
So the women have a ritual called the Ducit Buane, where they, in the morning, the women
will get up and they'll go around the village and they sing the song that it basically translates
to, we want meat, you men don't give us enough meat.
And I wrote to the anthropologist and I said, is there a double entendre there?
And he's like, yeah, definitely.
Lorraine is casting a rye glance right now.
So they go around the village and the women will like, they'll go up to the man who's
lying in his hammock and a woman will go and bang on the post where his hammock is tied.
And this is not his, the woman he normally has sex with, right?
And what it means is, if you come home with some meat tonight, I'll fuck you.
So it's motivation for these guys, like, oh, I get some strange.
If I kill a monkey.
I get some strange, strange.
So we should rename our species to hominous pivenous, sorry, it's a Jeremy Piven joke.
Strange seeking missile.
So they, okay, so then the guys, like, if you don't, if you're not into that woman,
you can say, oh, my stomach's bad and like, okay, they'll let it ride.
Right.
But so then the guys will get together and now in the Amazon, they hunt independently
because the game is very sparse in the, you know, it's monkeys basically and they're spread
out.
So the guys will all leave the village together.
But before they split up, they agree to meet at a certain place at a certain time.
So then they go out, a couple of the guys will shoot a monkey, the others won't come
back.
They got a couple of monkeys.
They cut up the monkeys.
So every guy walks back into the village with me and they all get laid.
And the anthropologist who wrote this in an academic paper at the end, he wrote, the
Kulina participate in this ritual in very good cheer, of course they do.
So now as a, as a guy who is delving into all of this as a married guy who's in love
with his wife and who has his own ego and his own, like, like, what, what, what meat
did you get today?
When you, when you come up against this, this point where you got like, oh, this is how
humans, what, what, how do you, like, like we talked about this earlier, like you, so
our human species, like we, monogamy is, it's, it may not be an instinct for us, but it's,
it's something that we want to do and that is worthwhile.
And that way I'm asking you as the guy who wrote the book and who is married, how you're
coping with that information as it's coming in.
Yeah.
Why, if, if, why doesn't it change you?
Why don't you run out naked in the street and become the, the guy who's preaching the,
the gospel of polygamy?
Would you like us to talk about Chevy again?
Has he run out naked in the street?
If you're saying that we're not scientifically hardwired to monogamy, what's, what's the,
why is that something that's persisted?
Is there a benefit socially for us?
It's an economic institution that's persisted because of private property, because it makes
more sense and fits into an economic world that we've lived in for quite a while.
Now, okay.
Then I have another question since like, you know, if that really is the roots of misogyny
and male domination and grossness, why, since we aren't really a, you know, a hunter gatherer
society and really we're not an agricultural society, we certainly need agriculture to
survive, but we're not really, we don't need upper body strength to, to, to survive anymore.
Why does that male domination persist now?
Is that just a hangover from that long ago or do we know why women still get less money
and why we still treat women like shit all the time and like, like what's, why does that
persist?
Well, I think women are still subjugated in the sense that they're still seen largely
as breeding vessels in, in much of the world and in this part of the world until very recently.
You know, adultery as defined in the Bible and as defined in Western society until 20
years ago only referred to the women.
You weren't an adulterer if you screwed a single woman, even though you were married.
Right.
You had the bastard son running around, you know, the Game of Thrones thing where it's
like, it's okay to have your seed perched somewhere on accident.
In fact, it's advantageous, you know, it was a sign of wealth and power.
So I mean, yeah, there are a lot of lingering effects of this in Western society and certainly
if you look at, you know, Iran or Afghanistan where women are still being stoned to death
for the crime of having been raped, right?
It's insane.
So women are still seen as property very much.
And what, what we really rebelled against in our book is this idea that women are by
nature gold diggers, right?
Women are by their very nature trading sexual access for, you know, goods and services for
men for status and or meat and the ancestral environment or whatever it is that's bullshit.
Women were put in a position where all they had left to barter with was their sexuality.
So of course they did in order to survive because if you had a kid as a single woman
in Victorian England in Darwin's day, you were a piece of shit.
You were thrown into the street and your kids would starve to death.
Yeah.
If you're not allowed to be a senator ever and you don't have a penis, yeah, and you're
ambitious.
So what do you do?
You survive.
I mean, you try to survive.
So but what was your question?
Oh, what do you do?
Why am I not in the street naked?
Well, my question is what do you say to yourself at night as you go to bed next to your lovely
wife as you turn out the light and you go, I got my dog, I go, do you have kids?
You know, you're living the American dream, you got your white picket fence.
You wrote a book that says that people want to fuck everybody.
They do.
But I mean, just look at them.
Right?
So what's the follow up to that?
What's the epilogue to that, to a happily married man?
The epilogue is that we all make our own decisions and that, you know, as I said earlier about
vegetarians.
We also want to take a shit, but we do it in a toilet.
We also want to pick our nose, but we don't eat it.
Why are you equating sex with horrible things?
Hear them out, hear them out, doctor.
Well, I jumped, you go ahead, finish.
No, I mean, I assume that's what you were going to say.
No, I think, you know, people find their own compromises.
People find ways.
The only thing, we don't advocate anything in the book.
The only thing, you know, in terms of behavior, we only advocate compassion and understanding.
And you know, let's start from a realistic understanding of what sort of species we are.
So we look at anthropology, we look at primatology, we look at human anatomy, particularly reproductive
anatomy, the shape of the penis, the, the volume of the testicles, the fact that women
can have multiple orgasms.
I got in trouble giving a TED talk because Meg Ryan was in the audience and I decided
to go off script and talked about female copulatory vocalization and that really pissed
them off.
She can't have a problem with that.
She doesn't, but the guy who runs TED did.
He was like, I won't have what you're saying she's having.
Thank you, thank you guys, thank you.
Well, there's also something to be said about anatomy in the context of children.
I mean, you know, there's a lot of evidence of the destructive impact of, you know, apparent
leaving.
You know, Desmond Morris's book, which is again, it's totally the only anthropology
book I've ever read by this guy in the sixties who literally that guy, I don't think in this
book he said it, but he did say just to put this in context, he did imply that women's
breasts evolved to look the way they did so that they would remind men of their butts.
That's called the genital echo theory.
That's just to put it in context.
To remind men of their own butts?
Like, a lot of founding fathers of theories that we end up building stuff on, you know,
you put it in context, you're like, oh, you know what else Freud thought?
He thought this.
Like, you don't discount Freud, but it was a different time.
Anyways, that was the one book I read and the thing that really stuck with me was this
idea of pair bonding and neoteny.
He talked about how humanity was in the crosshairs of nature and we were going to be exterminated
from the earth if we didn't figure out a fucking way to survive and we had to do it through
change and we had to start emulating the pack hunting, like biological killing machines
around us.
And as we did, we had to really hunker down and stop being like these bonobos, he didn't,
I don't know if he knew they were called bonobos or not, but stop being like our forebears
and start making some changes and one of those changes was we got to focus on the brain biologically
and because that makes a baby harder to take care of for a longer time, we got to focus
on pair bonding.
So we got to fall in love, we got to look at each other and we got to go, I'm going to
have a baby with you and when we have that baby with somebody, it's got to mean something
and we're going to stick with them and that that all came out of our advancement, that
as we started walking upright and as we lost our hair and as we started learning to use
tools and as we invented alphabets, we were also learning to love each other precisely
because our children are children until an unreasonable amount of time.
In the amount of time that it takes a kid to be able to beat off a wolf with a stick,
you can have a whole wolf.
That wolf that he's beating off with a stick is retiring and it's going like, I'm too
old for this shit.
Humans live until they're a very, very old age and their childhood is like they're largely
spent being a gelatinous blob of crying snotty garbage and so you need somebody to stick
around and take care of it and so we started to, we took that direction away from the bonobos.
You don't just climb up in a tree, you don't just hit the hills when you hear a distress
call, we took a different path and part of that path was us going, okay, you and me,
hey, you, Cindy, okay, yes, Carl, yeah, no matter what happens, right, for real, okay.
The people that felt that way, Cindy and Carl, at the dawn of time, the people that felt
that way, and this is what's crazy, that's crazy idea, the people that felt, but then
again, we have dogs shaped like corkscrews, but they're more genetically malleable, but
the people that felt that way survived longer, the humanity that survived the ice ages and
whatever the hell happened to us, there were the people that coupled up and said, like,
I love Cindy.
But let's look at the unarticulated assumptions in that, right?
I don't think, I think everything I said was totally scientifically airtight.
I can't even begin to imagine in all the years of research.
Everything you said was articulated, I'll give you that.
This is Little Pink Houses theory of human evolution, what is it, Jack and Diane, right?
Cindy and Carl.
Yeah, Cindy and Carl, sorry.
What that assumes is that we evolved in nuclear families, right?
Kassel and I, in our book, we call this flinstonization, this tendency to look around at the modern
world and project it into prehistory as a way to explain and justify the way we are
now.
The fact is, hunter-gatherers don't live in nuclear families.
They live in band-level societies of 150 people or fewer, in which they all take care of children.
So I certainly agree with you that two parents is better than one, but you know what's even
better?
15 parents, 20 parents, right?
And running around with a bunch of kids your age, a little older than you, a seven-year-old
respects the opinion of a 10-year-old way more than the opinion of an adult, right?
So there are all sorts of things built into us as a species that are resonant with band-level
societies.
God.
You know, Kasselda, who grew up in Africa, told me this beautiful expression, the best
place to store extra food is in your friend's stomach.
Makes perfect sense, right?
There was no refrigeration.
There was no accumulated resources.
So if you went out and you killed a deer and you came back and you said, according to your
Jack and Diane theory, I'm only going to share this meat with my wife and my kids, assuming
you knew they were your kids somehow, you know?
Because you're out hunting.
How the hell do you know who she's fucking, right?
I have a really weirdly shaped penis.
There's absolutely no way the woman that beds with me successfully could ever let another
man.
That was my weird strain of bile.
We're like the Habsburgs, but it's like a weird strain of DNA.
It's like a corkscrew, that's too simplistic because that's like a lock that could be picked.
My penis looks like a common house key.
And so did my great-grandfathers.
What were you saying?
That's how I would know back then.
So anyway, the anthropological data is very clear.
That hunter-gatherer people did not live in nuclear families.
They did not live in sexual-exclusive pair bonds.
So this theory that like, well, you know, the ones where the man stayed and took care
of the woman, well, first of all, he didn't stay because he had to go hunting.
Secondly, the last thing he would do is share the meat only with his wife because that would
get them all kicked out of the damn band, which is what they're depending on for survival.
And then you look at anthropological data, like for example, in the Amazon and Papua
New Guinea and other parts of the world, there are a whole bunch of societies that believe
in something that anthropologists call partable paternity, which is that, you know, we assume
that everybody knew that one sex act could result in a baby.
That's not true.
In fact, still today, lots of people don't know that Darwin didn't know that, right?
So these people believe that a fetus is quite literally made of accumulated semen.
So a woman, sorry to gross you out, but a woman who wants to have a baby, as all women
do, that's smart and funny and good looking, will have sex with the smart guy, the funny
guy and the good looking guy to get their semen into her fetus.
And then when she accumulates a certain amount of semen, then it starts to become a baby.
And then when she has the baby, all of these different men will come forward and say, yeah,
I'm a father.
And they're all like, there are different words in the language for like the one who
put it in, the one who spilled it out, the one who mixed it around.
Yeah, it's like gang bang porn in the Amazon.
I have a partial right now.
The one who mixed it around.
I don't want to be that guy.
That's the beta male at Papua New Guinea, right?
No.
No, you stirred it.
You stirred it.
Good job, Roger.
Go ahead.
I'll be right there.
I want to be the guy that mixes it around.
Cletus is the reason he's tall, and Tim's the reason he's smart, but you stirred him.
You stirred him together.
Every name starts with C in your tribe.
All right, well, I don't suppose either of you two have anything to plug or anything
to make worth your time visiting us, Lorraine?
Are you doing anything that you want people to know about?
I want you to benefit from your time with it.
Let's see.
You don't have to watch Metalocalypse, watch Garfield, you don't have to watch Doc McStuffins.
Doc McStuffins?
Yeah.
Tell me about that.
It's a reality show set in Papua New Guinea.
Yes.
And they all stuff it.
It's about the guy who just puts stuff in it.
I did an episode of Trophy White.
I don't know, yeah, I've got something called Box Trolls coming out in 2014.
What's Box Trolls?
Well, it's an animated feature, it's an English movie.
Wow.
I mean, you're shrugging it off, but what the hell is this podcast?
I just want to make sure, yeah, because we're honored to have you here.
We missed you last time, and thank you so much for coming.
It really is a pleasure to have you.
You've been a hero of mine for a long time.
It's very cool to have you.
And when I say have you, I mean, bonobo style.
And also, come back any time, that's a policy we have here, come hang out and you can take
Jeff's place.
It doesn't matter.
I'm the guy that mixes it around.
Let's also thank Dr. Chris Ryan, his podcast is called Tangentially Speaking.
Thank you guys.
These are our guests there.
I have a bad interviewer and a bad host, and I'm bad at dismissing people.
What's your book called, Sex at Dawn, that sounds like a Western, I love that.
Sex at Dawn.
Sex at Dawn, it's a threat and a promise.
Lorraine Newman and Dr. Chris Ryan, everybody.
First go to his podcast, Tangentially Speaking, which is a feral audio podcast, which I'm
sure if we listen to it, we'll be like, ah, man, you know, I'm afraid to listen to it.
Why?
Well, because he, you know, come on.
He's smart.
The elephant in the room, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, he's like me, but he read everything.
You know, not only is Dr. Ryan something like a fake doctor name, Dr. Chris Ryan, something
on a soap opera.
He's smarter than you and me and everybody, but he also speaks into the microphone way
better than both of us.
He sounds like a fucking radio DJ.
Yeah.
And he's sat there like he was fucking born there.
Like he just, he owned it.
But you know what?
He's right behind, now he's glooming, oh, honestly, right behind.
I like it.
I want a doctor over my shoulder.
I can refer to you in case, now he's caressing me tenderly.
I'm not a real doctor.
My wife is a real doctor if anyone has chest pains, talk to her.
Is that right?
What's your wife's name?
Casilda.
Casilda, did she wrote the book with you?
Yeah.
Why wouldn't she up on stage?
You sexist motherfucker.
Which sort of hunter-gatherer bullshit is this?
Well, he never said that he was against anything that he observed.
He was like, yes, men own women.
He's sitting here, he's sitting here right now, thinking of which of the audience he's
going to fuck later on.
And he's pointing at you.
He gave me a tender caress moment ago and it was, it will not soon be forgotten.
Jeff, if should we go to the moon or have a nuclear holocaust, I would be honored.
I would say the first.
I would be honored if you would be the one that mixed it up.
Dan?
In my new family.
Dan, if he'll put it in, I'll mix it around.
Speaking of which, let's bring out Erin McGathy.
From the world's worst segue department.
Have you had any thoughts listening to all this?
Yeah, sure.
I have to say, I was really sleepy and I love Dr. Christopher Ryan.
I've actually read his book, Sex at Dawn.
It was recommended to me before he had his podcast, but I fell asleep for the last 10
years.
That was my fault.
No, no, no.
It was no boredom.
I was just sleepy and comfortable.
And there's an intern back there who fell asleep, she complimented my dress and then
fell asleep.
But I was like, I want to take a nap with her.
So I fell asleep too.
It's happening as he's talking.
Yeah, it's tribal.
You guys created a hammock back there.
Should I come back and mix it up and give it a little here and a little there?
So women thought a baby was made by combined seamen, by fucking everybody.
And the baby would turn out funny, smart, tall, clever.
This is that.
And there was one guy's job just to get in there.
I was like, look, the baby's tall, he's clever.
I'm not.
I was, I just mixed it up.
I immediately thought, I have a feeling that that title was reserved for the guy that they
couldn't figure it out.
They're like, oh, he's handsome like Tim and he's strong like Kyle.
And Steve, I'm sure you really made sure that Tim and Kyle were both equally represented
with the back and forth motion of your tiny little plunger.
The way I heard that, that was not a beta male thing.
It was very alpha.
The guy's like, I went in there.
I was so secure.
I went in there.
I just went and mixed all that come up and fucking stirred it up.
Here's the crazy thing.
Do you ever wonder like how the fuck did human beings ever figure this out?
Because I guess they had nothing else to think about and no other data to collect.
But with, I just learned that with cats, that's actually true.
Like a couple different cats can fuck a female cat and a litter of kittens actually represent
different.
So cool.
It's so neat.
You can have a whole baseball team.
How back then, I guess I kind of understand, it's just amazing to think of what they were
going through back then at the dawn of our species and how they looked at men and women.
Well, I guess I'm, first of all figuring out like, oh, that thing I do that I really want
to do and then that stuff that comes out when I finish doing it.
Oh, that's, that's like seeds and you're like dirt because sometimes like them making the
correlation that nine months later sometimes.
Did you ever have a sex talk, like a formal sex talk?
No, my mom.
Did your dad hate you with a sex education book?
My mom said to me at one point that this is as close as verbatim as I can get.
And I apologize to my mom.
She's a great mom.
I don't think she's listened to the podcast anymore, but my mom at one point said that
sometimes when a man looks at a naked lady, his penis gets excited and stands up and dances
around and then white stuff comes out of it.
And I, I was, I went to the bathroom after watching Debbie does Dallas with my older
brother and he would invite the neighbor kids over to why he would charge them to watch
Debbie does Dallas.
Cause my dad had it on VHS.
It's a porn.
You fucking 25 year old.
You big sausage pizza generation.
We used to have story.
Debbie didn't want to do Dallas.
She had to.
Mr. Greenfield earned it.
I was like pre pubescent and watching the big, cause the big kids were watching.
I went to the bathroom.
I've told this story a million times, but I went to the bathroom and I, I, we all, this
was the seventies.
Everyone had tidy, whitey briefs.
That's all you wore.
And there was some cotton lint on my wee wee that I was absolutely certain I looked at
it as I was going to the bathroom and I went, Oh my God, my penis got up and danced around
because I looked at a naked lady.
And that's the white stuff that came out.
Do you think there was a man in your penis, like the shining?
I thought that my penis was like a man that danced around.
Yes.
I'm not kidding.
That's how she described it to me.
I grew up in a very religious family when I was six years old.
My mom and I went to a carnival and I don't remember the details from the carnival.
I remember when we got in the car, I had, I was holding a $5 bill or which was Lincoln
on?
Five.
Yeah.
Okay.
I'm just double checking.
So I was holding this $5 bill and we lived in Italy and I didn't have like American money.
Or a penny.
It could have been a penny.
It was a bill.
And I hadn't really seen American money.
And I was like, Ah, this guy, like to get on this bill, we're driving home.
I'm like five or six years old.
It's amazing.
Like he got on this bill.
Like where did he come from?
And my mom said, Well, when two people love each other very much, the female will arouse
the man.
So his penis turns, it becomes an erect.
Yeah.
Why?
I was like, What?
What?
What dots was she connecting there?
I think she was just waiting for it.
She was really excited.
My mom, my mom was, was, was very like academic and was just waiting for her chance to tell
me about sex.
And also she, she always liked scaring me.
I think I was, I was just like, This guy, Bill, what a night at the carnival.
Like I remember, I remember as she was explaining this to me, I remember looking at fireworks
going off in the background as she was saying, Well, when a man and a woman love each other
very much, the woman will arouse a man.
So his penis becomes erect, hard like a stick.
And then the stick goes inside the woman.
And if he's excited enough, his, his ejaculate will go into her.
And if it freezes the egg,
She called the dick a stick, but she used the word ejaculate.
It's a weird time to get clinical.
Well, our dog was named ejaculate.
Okay.
And I, I just sat in silence the way home and she kept on asking me if I was okay.
And I was fine.
But I misunderstood the talk and that I thought that, and I think a lot of kids think this,
I thought that the penis detached and you plugged it in like a gas hose.
So that's what I was thinking.
A gas hose.
Well, like I thought I imagined my, a gas pump.
I was imagining my parents lying next to each other and my, and my dad being like, honey,
is it time for another, another McAfee child?
And him just being, my mom being like, yay, a baby.
All because I asked, all because I was celebrating Abraham Lincoln on being on the bill.
Meanwhile, I thought women had nothing to do.
I thought that when a man looks at a woman, his penis is like just goes.
You guys are lunatics.
How does a bill become a lot?
Well, when a man loves a woman, his penis turns into a man,
Detaches like a gas hose and pours ejaculate into her.
I do remember when I was six years old as we were, we were driving home and I,
I had a presence of mind to be like, this is fucking crazy that she told me about this.
I really feel like this is too soon.
By the way, I wasn't allowed to watch an R rated movie until I was 17.
So I knew everything, but nothing at the same time.
But I had this moment where I was like, just remember, just remember this.
Whenever you look at Abraham Lincoln or a $5 bill, you're going to remember where you were.
And this is the first time that you are making a memory.
That was my thing.
I was like, this is my first memory, which doesn't, doesn't make any sense.
But still, every time I look at a $5 bill, I think about my mom and my dad fucking.
The first time you, the first time you were scarred.
Yeah.
Wow.
That was not the first time.
All right.
Come on.
Heavens.
Damn.
Dan, I think I may have taken my nap before because I'm,
You slept during a fucking fascinating interview.
Oh, no, no.
I left it.
So when you're back there before the show, you just snoozing?
No, no, no.
It wasn't for very long.
It was really because there was a nice lady who complimented my dress and I just wanted
to take it back with her.
I mean, that's really what happened.
Thank you.
I know.
I think you were just tired.
I was, I was also just tired.
But Dan is meeting my extended family on Wednesday, my very southern, southern extended family.
And I started thinking about how soon that is.
And I started getting really like nervous and overwhelmed.
So I've been, I've been distracted by that.
But not in a bad way, in an exciting way.
Did it make you sleepy?
Don't you get overwhelmed and then sleepy?
Yeah.
Well, okay.
Well, it's, it's, it's.
Yeah, let's get Spencer up here.
21 minutes.
Spencer, get up here.
Here comes, here comes Cranky Spencer.
Here comes Cranky Underdog Spencer.
What was that?
Oh, I was not enough time to play proper D&D.
I love that.
I love not having to write new things next week.
He's, he is truly my protege.
I've been training him in the art of not liking working.
Spencer, I don't think I'm speaking out of school when I say that you are, you're going to be in an episode of community, right?
Yeah.
Who is also mentioned a couple weeks ago.
I was not there.
Did you enjoy your experience on camera?
I had to think about that.
Yeah.
I enjoyed it.
They, you know, I think in two weeks ago, we also said Danny and Allison.
So they were really nice to me.
They were really nice to me.
I'm, I'm awkward.
I don't talk to people.
I don't make eye contact.
I don't know what to say.
I don't know what I'm saying right now, but they made me feel like almost a regular person.
And more than that, almost a regular person that might have supposed to have been there.
Wow.
Yeah.
And it was amazing.
Spencer, whether you like it or not, you've been thrust into the limelight and you're,
you've become a beloved national treasure.
I'd like to think so.
All right.
Now do your job.
Get those character sheets out.
Roll your dice.
Dice boy.
I haven't played, Spencer, I haven't, I haven't played D&D in a few weeks.
I want you to know that I've really been thinking about my character the last couple of weeks.
And this is going to be really good from me.
That I'm going to be very committed to my character.
And I'm going to really play this.
I'm not going to be, I'm not going to be stupid.
I'm going to hold you to that.
Please do.
I have to pee so bad.
We got this.
Just go.
Go quick.
We'll cover it, dad.
No, no, no.
I'll play, I'll play your snoring while you're peeing.
Will you play, play, play for the, but that's the whole show.
That's the closure.
No, no, no.
We'll play it.
We'll talk about it next week.
Aaron recorded me snoring.
No.
Let's say, let's say that.
Go pee.
Are we, should we play snoring while you pee?
Just while he's peeing.
Go pee.
Okay.
Get the hell out of here.
It's 9.41.
Let's see how long it takes to end the pee.
I have, I have two videos.
I have a video of Dan snoring and then I taped him while I was trying to gently adjust him
and what he said to me.
Gently adjust him.
Well, because if he's lying in a certain position, he snorts really loud, but any other position,
he's fine.
So I was just trying to like move the pillow a little bit, but this is him snoring.
Will the audio work here?
One hopes.
Bottom.
Will the beast?
So this goes on for a very long time and I'm going to play the audio of me just trying to
move this pillow so, so he could stop snoring.
All right, I'm going to pause it.
I'd like to say that I didn't get it very good.
If I remember dating somebody and I am right now, like if I snore like that, I would want
to just a fucking put a bullet in my head.
I mean, Dan has been working such long hard hours on community and is so tired.
He's working so, so, so hard and this was, I mean, he's barely ever home.
He sleeps at the office and last night he kept me up and this is, I wasn't angry, but
kept me up.
Dan's back everybody.
Dan's back.
Shit, a minute and a half.
Not bad at all.
He was snoring so loud.
The trick is I didn't wash my hands.
Stick them in my mouth, stick your hands in my mouth.
Sorry, he was from home.
He was snoring so loud that he kept on waking himself up with a snoring and be like, what,
what, Aaron, what?
Did you hear it?
Did she play?
No, no.
Well, I'm going to start laughing.
You couldn't hear from the bathroom?
You pee that loud?
You couldn't hear all the snoring?
Yeah.
So, so really quick.
This is 45 seconds.
We'll have to hold our breath because it's pretty quiet and then we can laugh after.
Stop.
What's wrong with you?
What?
Nothing.
You're just snoring a little bit.
What?
You know, I don't want to fight.
I don't want to do anything wrong.
I just need you to understand.
Do you have any idea how little sleep I've got in my real life?
I know.
I'm so sorry.
You're just...
If I do something wrong, I'll...
It's not anything wrong.
It's a boost in adjustment.
Right.
It's okay.
Yeah.
It's not sleeping.
I don't have to talk.
Yeah.
Fucking low-level sitting Nancy.
I'm like, keep snoring.
It's fine.
Keep snoring.
Hey, listen.
Listen.
I may be asleep right now.
But I want to ring your soul like a fucking rag.
I want to drink every drop.
I don't know if you understand while I'm sleeping, how much energy you need to put into me sleeping.
Yeah.
I'm sorry.
I'm so sorry.
Oh, no.
Don't be sorry.
I woke up feeling terrible.
Because the truth is, honestly, like that was a weird...
It was a weird night.
That was a weird night of catching up on a lot of shit.
And I hope that was unusual.
I don't...
It was.
It was unusual.
I mean, that's the reason why I taped up.
I don't have a backlog of, what if, what if I did?
I'll start doing that.
Also, if I...
I mean, look, I don't want to think that I snore.
Maybe I do, maybe I don't.
I wouldn't want some of...
I have a video of you.
I wouldn't want someone to fucking record me.
Don't record me while I'm fucking sleeping.
I don't mind it.
I actually...
I'm kind of interested in that.
Oh, no.
It's the one thing you'll never hear.
It's so interesting.
It's truly like you and your most...
I used to tape my dad snoring.
Back of your head in a mirror, you know, it's like this weird...
That's what I sound like when my body is...
I don't know.
It's weird.
Spencer, let's play a little D&D show.
Yeah.
Last time on Harmontown.
And you know the thing about that Meerkat show?
Sorry.
You invite me here.
You tell me to do stuff.
Sorry.
It's cool.
What's on everyone's Christmas list?
Silence.
I feel like Hollywood has changed, Spencer.
I think being comfortable here has changed me into being less agreeable in general.
Which is my natural state, to be fair.
You're starting to realize that what you're doing is technically labor.
I mean, starting to?
For Christmas, I'm getting Spencer a belt that's just one of the...
Is that table?
I don't get it.
Spencer?
You will.
Spencer, just to change things up, I want you to do an intro D&D,
but I want you to do it to old timey strip tease music.
If it doesn't give us a boner, you did it wrong.
Well, I've already failed.
I don't even know.
So welcome to the stage, spicy Spencer.
I'm already here.
For the podcast, all lights have been cut, except to me.
I don't know what's happening.
It's called the special.
You have your light now.
It's called burlesque.
It's Hollywood, man.
Take your fucking shirt off.
You want fame?
Well, fame costs, and right now is where you start paying.
I don't want any of this.
I never did.
I just want a poor vodka and sit in a corner.
Do it.
Okay.
How much time do we have left on this music, Jeff?
Just two minutes.
All right.
Last time on Harmontown, nothing happened.
I will leave.
I mean, honestly, it's your guys' name on this.
Yeah, come on.
Well, it's just one person's name on it.
I mean, sure.
I think we're just feeling guilty that we ran up the clock as usual.
So we're trying to make a joke out of it.
Sometimes when it's dark, I kick my cat because I just bump into it.
And I don't think, oh, sorry.
Let me kick you a whole bunch more times while laughing gleefully.
That'll solve this problem.
Well, does your cat seem like part of him kind of likes it a little bit?
Depending on where you kick it.
Oh, yeah.
I have a socks on.
What minute 20 left on this track, Spencer?
Yeah.
And this is what?
Take four?
All right.
Last week on Harmontown, as they said before, literally nothing happened.
There was a different Harmontown.
No, no D&D happened.
Oh, right, right.
But the time before that, however, our heroes were locked in combat with Admiral Darkstar.
You see, the climactic-anticlimactic combat involved face-sitting,
wire-saws, and dismemberment discussions on the seemingly helpful as Admiral.
And after attempting to reason with the Dark Lord, he revealed that where he killed,
he'd grow much more powerful, perhaps more than they'd ever imagine.
But heeding not Darkstar's words, our heroes settled on decapitating him via wire-saw,
and Christopher began his grisly work.
As he saw, a foul oozing miasma began spewing from the dark armor,
filling the room with vortex of evil energy.
But after a moment, it dissipated.
Our heroes began to celebrate their victory,
but the jubilations were cut short by a massive metal claw bursting forth from the floor below.
A four-fingered ferris fist snatched Quark and lifted him high into the air in its cold clutches.
And, yeah, that's what's happening.
Eleven minutes. Eleven minutes of role-playing.
It's going to be the most intense role-playing you've ever had.
Okay, so just-
Quark!
So I may be held up in a big fist?
Yeah, so you thought you killed this guy, and then all of a sudden this hand bursts out of the ground,
cracking the stone floors all around you, and it grabs Quark and lifts him up in the air,
like some sort of thing holding Quark up in the air.
No!
I try to wrestle myself free.
All right, that's probably a good opening move.
Yeah.
That doesn't happen.
Aw.
You try to squirm out of its grip, but it's vice-like claws.
Hold you tight in place.
Help me!
Teleport cloak.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, up to the top of the thumb of the hand holding my friend.
You wave your teleport cloak, and it gives up.
It seems like it's run out for the day.
Quark!
I'm going to put on my boots of springing.
So wait.
Okay.
You relax, save your energy.
You look very weak.
I'm being crushed by a giant hand.
Yeah, I know, shush.
I put on my boots of springing, and I take a deep breath,
and, you know, and baseball players, if they make eye contact with something, it works better.
So I do that.
Big jump.
I use my boots of springing.
To try and jump.
To try and jump up and release him, because I have a whole basket of crafts and a lot of ideas.
I just got to get up there.
All right, you spring spryly atop the hand.
You land between the second and third fingers, kind of on the joint of this hand.
You're kind of standing above where Quark is with your basket of crafts.
All right, I'm about to destroy your handiwork, sir.
No, no, no.
I liked it.
Can I do anything else?
What do you want to try?
It depends.
You could start doing something else, to be sure.
Okay.
I'm going to prepare something for my next move, which will be...
Being crushed by a hand.
I'm going to...
I sit there while I'm being crushed by a hand.
I watch her prepare something.
Do I have antifreeze?
No.
You have cheese.
All right.
Is it about our other game where I have all the cheese, or I have a lot of cheese here, too?
It's a craft supply.
Okay, interesting.
I could hear Adam getting that.
Okay.
I take out...
I take out two pieces of plastic sheeting from my craft area, and...
Hang on, AFT.
We've released Adam.
Someone put a nickel in.
I take out two sheets of plastic sheeting, that she's some string and a hole punch.
Stay tuned.
All right.
Plastic doesn't exist.
What?
Either just preparing stuff for the next round.
Okay, well, then I'll wait for my next turn.
All right.
I'll put it at Dan's turn, since it's magical item.
I want to do a bunch of stuff.
Do it.
Gash is form.
Waving your arms around.
You dissipate to a gas.
Disappatisformatis...
We now occupy the room like some sort of fog or mist.
Yeah.
Well, guess what?
I'm moving up into this robot's face.
Well, there's only the claw.
Oh, the claw?
Okay, I assumed it.
I projected a robot with my mind.
I mean...
Who's to say there's not a robot?
All right.
I mean, a big robot hand came up, grabbed my friend.
Yeah.
All right.
I'm a gaseous form.
Yeah.
I'm going to... Can I do something?
You can exist in a gaseous state.
What does a gas do?
It dissipates.
It sits.
You can't do anything as a gas, dude.
I can't move.
Well, you're a gas.
Yeah, you can...
Someone, please make a t-shirt for Dan that says exists in a gaseous state.
I can't move.
Dan, the one who cast it blasted.
Dumb.
Yeah, you can drift around, but yeah, that's about it.
I drift around to the robot's face.
I'm being crushed by a hand.
You guys are putting on plastic and cheese and turning into farts.
I drift down through the hole that the hand came up through.
Okay.
I'm going down through the hole that the hand came up through.
That makes sense.
Yeah.
I get it now.
Does it?
Yeah.
It makes more sense.
It makes 80s hero sense.
You're flowing through the cracks in the floor.
You go down a level and there you see a giant robot man.
See?
With his arm through the ceiling.
I get up in his grill.
You surround his face gaseously.
Yeah.
Now you become a 90s hero.
So the...
Welcome to Earth.
The claw starts flailing around and it smacks Chris...
No, Quark, sorry.
Sorry, Quark.
Into the ground all body slam style or something.
Does he release him?
Flice watch style?
Yeah.
I mean, he opens his fingers so that he could get the crushing thing going on.
Get out of there.
Yeah, he does actually.
I get out of there?
At the last second as the fingers open, you dive out of the way and miss being squashed
very narrowly.
It's because I'm nimble as a fucking mountain goat.
What am I doing?
You're preparing crafts, I believe.
Am I still on the fingers?
He...
You'd be in front of the fingers at this point.
I've been what?
You're now in front of the fingers on the floor as the fingers are on the floor.
I see, okay.
Like that.
Yeah.
Is that my turn?
For the podcast.
Yeah.
The barbarian rage, mighty sword attack on the hand.
I try to slice the veins on his wrist like a cutter.
Bleed this dick real slow.
As I do it, I take my sword and I go, I'll make you leak, Jack.
Wow.
Wait, so are you quipping whittily or raging?
I equip rageily.
Okay.
The true meaning of what you were trying to say doesn't come across entirely, but being a robot hand, you don't suspect it matters.
But you slice into his finger with your mighty sword and cleave one off.
It seems to do...
I went for the wrist.
Oh, the wrist?
Well, you don't cleave it off then.
Oh.
You do just deal some serious damage.
All right.
Is there extras 1d6s on you?
This is so boring.
Anybody got 1d6s?
Talking about math.
Yeah, it's 2d8 plus 8.
Yeah, I got you.
It's 19 to 20 pence, too.
He's asking for dice.
Yeah, for dice.
No, no, I got the dice.
I got the dice.
Sweet.
You always got the dice.
22 damage.
Fuck yeah.
Freak out.
All right, is it back on me?
Were you just trying to end the show?
No, no, no.
I thought that you were like, yes, yes, and then everyone just killed the momentum.
No, no, no, no.
Fuck.
I end the show.
I would do this till 11.
I'm going to find their limit.
I take the supplies that I had gathered before, not plastic, string and cheese.
I make eye contact with the room and I smash it and I put on my amulet of summer, my flaming
armor that can heat up metal.
That's you guys.
We'll edit their silence out.
With my amulet of summer, which I'm assuming fires up so it looks like I'm on fire, right?
Yeah, like not completely human torch, but pretty much there.
Okay.
All right.
Fuck, I say to my friends.
And then I am going to charge the, can I charge the, is the heart exposed?
Not from this floor.
You'd have to pop down to the lower level there.
All you have is the hand coming up through the floor right now.
Yep.
Okay.
Well, I guess I'll go ahead and pop down, but can I pop down by sliding down the neck
like a Ghostbusters pole?
So it's kind of like, okay.
Yeah, you can.
It's just the arm, not the neck.
Right.
Okay.
Then I start out.
All right.
I'm going to slide, slide down the, the arm, but I'm going to nuzzle it as I go down.
So it's to create as much damage as possible.
With the damaging nuzzle, you slide down the metal arm.
It doesn't seem to do very much because it's metal, but you do slide down the arm and find
yourself on its shoulder right next to the giant robotic head.
Cool.
You got a, you got an attack action or something.
Oh, I do.
Oh, well, then I'll, I'll take my flaming arrows and I will fire my flaming arrows into
one into an, into the robot's eye and the other into his neck.
Cause he'll be like, what is happening?
You fire your arrows at point blank range.
They both smash into the head, except one of them seems to like bounce off the head in
it, just plinks off the armor.
The other, however, pierces through and goes into the brain.
You can see, well, I mean the robot brain, I don't know what you call that, a computer,
the capacitor, which doesn't exist in D and D.
However, according to Asimov, all, it's the soul matrix.
The soul matrix emits sparks and he takes 12 damage.
Brain damage though.
That's fire.
And I say, I'm on fire.
The laziest mic drop of all time.
Well, I, I, I don't want to hurt the mic.
But you thought you could do damage by nuzzling.
Oh, well, I mean, have you ever slept next to Dan Harmon?
Hello.
Look, I don't want you to, I don't want to get in a fight.
I just need you to understand how high the stakes are when I'm sleeping.
Also the night before, where's the treasure?
The treasure's here.
I'm just trying to get a little treasure.
Treasure.
I was trying to get a little treasure.
I was breaking the finale story.
In my sleep.
You're welcome.
It's how hard I work.
We're close to the finish time.
We have to come up with a cliffhanger here.
Let's, let's, let's focus.
Sharpie's turn.
All right.
So I'm Gash's form and I'm up in this guy's grill.
Or that dessert.
Okay.
So here's the thing.
I'm going around back of his neck.
This is what I do.
This is my thing.
I'm going to stop being Gash's form and I'm just going to be on his neck.
No, wait.
Can I, can I go into his body because I'm Gash's?
Yes.
Can I edit the podcast to make it seem like I knew that already?
I'm thinking, oh, I'm Gash's.
I should, I should be on his left shoulder.
I go inside his robot body as a Gash's form.
Okay.
That happens.
Then it's quite an inner space.
Yeah.
I'm like the, the left half of Timothy Hutton in the dark half.
Sud.
That's Timothy Hutton's fault, not mine.
That's how he ended up on TBS.
Yeah.
So you're inside of him.
Did you want to do anything else?
Yeah.
I want to look around.
Do an attack.
Attack damage.
What?
What do I see in there?
Am I Gash's or can I see?
You could, you're Gash's and you can see.
All right.
You see a bunch of-
Sharpie, expand yourself as much as you can.
Just let me see.
That's what she said.
What do I, what do I see?
Um, yeah.
You see-
How can I see?
I'm Gash.
I don't have eyeballs.
Well, that would take a lot longer then.
Yeah.
Um, but you see a lot of stuff you don't understand because it's,
it's magical robot shit and you're not like a magical robot-tician.
But I know what a heart is.
You sure do.
I know where, I know where the power is coming from.
Well, you see, you see a weird glowing thing.
You see a lot of weird glowing things.
Yeah, I see, but I see, but I see something glowing more than other things.
Nope.
They're all glowing equally.
Yeah, I do.
No, I do.
They're different colors.
I see something red.
I see a red thing.
Okay.
I see it glowing bright in the chest area.
And I gasped my way over to that.
Okay.
Yeah.
Dan, you can't just tell him what's there.
I am having a moment here with Spencer.
I, that's where I, that's, I go to that and then, and then I reform around it.
Okay.
Punching it.
I see a purse boutique.
Punching.
Okay.
So you, you, you flow in, you flow in and you, you, you stop.
You see what is a red glowing thing inside the interior of this machine.
You're in it.
Corporalized.
Yeah.
And you start punching it.
Well, I mean, let's, you know, if you want to get specific about what I'm doing, there's
obviously cords, wires, valves coming in.
No, there's not.
There's a glowing red thing, but that's it.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Okay.
Then.
Yes.
I mean, there's more glowing things.
There's no cords or wires.
All right.
Then I, I mean, how, how long is this move?
I, yes.
I, I, I, I re-corporalize and I punch it.
Okay.
You start punching the red thing.
It, it continues to glow and it starts glowing brighter and it's getting hotter as you're
punching it.
It's going to start burning you if you keep punching it.
I'm going to start burning it.
Okay.
Well, then it continues to glow brighter and brighter.
So do I.
Oh, well, I mean, let's put that aside for a moment.
It continues to glow brighter and then it mits.
Spencer, Spencer, Spencer, get back.
Spencer.
He left.
He left the job.
Spencer, just get it back here.
Spencer, we need you.
He just walked out the back.
Oh my God.
What the fuck?
Dan fell asleep and started snoring.
So I'll take over.
What just happened?
We lost, we lost lost Spencer.
Spencer.
It's a cliffhanger.
I couldn't have been more invested in what was happening.
I know.
Like he was experiencing a totally different thing.
I think he took the, the snoring thing as a comment on his dungeon mystery.
Oh, like, like, like, like, yeah.
Way to go, Aaron.
What?
All right.
So Erin McGathy's a bad person, cliffhanger.
Thank you for coming to Harmontown, everybody.
Can we give it up one more time for Spencer Crittenden, Erin McGathy.
Dr. Christopher Ryan and fucking Lorraine Newman, everybody.
Lorraine Newman.
Garrett Morris.
I'm your comptroller, Yav Davis.
And your mayor, Dan Harmon.
Spencer, wherever you are, we love you.
Good night all.
We made him leave.
Oh, okay.